// Beginner Web Application Security Deck

What is the primary difference between HTTP and HTTPS protocols?
HTTP transmits data in plain text making it interceptable, while HTTPS uses SSL/TLS encryption to protect data confidentiality and integrity.

What is the basic command to test HTTP methods with curl?
"curl -X OPTIONS [target_url]" which tests supported HTTP methods and can help identify potential security misconfigurations.

What is the difference between GET and POST parameters in web applications?
GET parameters appear in URLs and have length limits, while POST parameters appear in request bodies and can handle larger amounts of data.

What is the primary purpose of HTTP headers in web security?
Headers control caching, authentication, content type, and security policies, making them crucial for understanding application behavior and potential vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to view HTTP headers with curl?
"curl -I [target_url]" which displays all HTTP headers sent by the server, revealing server information and security configurations.

What is the difference between request headers and response headers?
Request headers are sent by the client to provide information about the request, while response headers are sent by the server with information about the response.

What is the primary purpose of the "User-Agent" header in web testing?
To identify the client browser and operating system, useful for testing browser-specific vulnerabilities and bypassing browser restrictions.

What is the basic command to change User-Agent with curl?
"curl -A "Mozilla/5.0" [target_url]" which sends a request with a custom User-Agent header to mimic a specific browser.

What is the difference between cookies and session management?
Cookies store data client-side for session tracking, while session management maintains server-side state associated with session identifiers.

What is the primary purpose of the "Referer" header in web security?
To indicate which page linked to the current request, useful for understanding application flow and testing referrer-based vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to test Referer header manipulation?
"curl -e "http://malicious.com" [target_url]" which sends a request with a fake Referer header to test referrer-based security controls.

What is the difference between status codes 200, 403, and 500?
200 indicates successful request, 403 indicates forbidden access, and 500 indicates server error, each revealing different security information.

What is the primary purpose of directory enumeration in web security?
To discover hidden directories, files, and administrative interfaces that may contain sensitive information or additional attack surfaces.

What is the basic command to perform directory enumeration with Gobuster?
"gobuster dir -u [target_url] -w [wordlist]" which systematically scans for directories using the specified wordlist.

What is the difference between directory brute forcing and file enumeration?
Directory brute forcing discovers folder paths, while file enumeration searches for specific files within those directories.

What is the primary purpose of the "dirb" tool in web testing?
To perform directory and file brute forcing using predefined wordlists to discover hidden web content.

What is the basic command to run dirb against a target?
"dirb [target_url]" which starts directory enumeration using default wordlists against the specified target.

What is the difference between recursive and non-recursive directory enumeration?
Recursive enumeration continues scanning discovered subdirectories, while non-recursive only scans the initial target directory.

What is the primary purpose of the "dirsearch" tool in modern web testing?
To perform fast, Python-based directory enumeration with advanced features like recursive scanning and status code filtering.

What is the basic command to run dirsearch with custom wordlist?
"python3 dirsearch.py -u [target_url] -w [wordlist]" which performs directory enumeration using the specified wordlist.

What is the difference between content discovery and vulnerability scanning?
Content discovery finds files and directories, while vulnerability scanning tests for security weaknesses in discovered content.

What is the primary purpose of web technology fingerprinting?
To identify frameworks, servers, and technologies used by web applications for targeted vulnerability research.

What is the basic command to fingerprint technologies with WhatWeb?
"whatweb [target_url]" which analyzes the website and reports detected technologies, frameworks, and server information.

What is the difference between server fingerprinting and framework identification?
Server fingerprinting identifies web server software, while framework identification identifies the application framework and libraries.

What is the primary purpose of the "Wappalyzer" browser extension?
To identify technologies used by websites through browser-based analysis, useful for quick reconnaissance during web testing.

What is the basic process to use Wappalyzer for technology identification?
Install the browser extension, visit the target website, and view the detected technologies in the browser toolbar icon.

What is the difference between passive and active technology fingerprinting?
Passive fingerprinting analyzes existing responses, while active fingerprinting sends specific requests to probe for technologies.

What is the primary purpose of robots.txt analysis in web security?
To discover website structure, administrative paths, and areas the website owner doesn't want search engines to index.

What is the basic command to retrieve robots.txt with curl?
"curl [target_url]/robots.txt" which downloads and displays the robots.txt file for analysis.

What is the difference between Allow and Disallow directives in robots.txt?
Allow specifies paths that can be crawled, while Disallow specifies paths that should not be crawled by search engines.

What is the primary purpose of sitemap.xml analysis in web reconnaissance?
To discover complete website structure, all available pages, and potential administrative interfaces for testing.

What is the basic command to retrieve sitemap.xml with curl?
"curl [target_url]/sitemap.xml" which downloads and displays the sitemap file containing website structure information.

What is the difference between XML sitemaps and HTML sitemaps?
XML sitemaps are machine-readable for search engines, while HTML sitemaps are human-readable pages linking to site content.

What is the primary purpose of web archive analysis in security testing?
To discover forgotten pages, old vulnerabilities, and historical functionality that may still be accessible.

What is the basic command to extract URLs from Wayback Machine with waybackurls?
"echo [domain] | waybackurls" which retrieves all archived URLs for the specified domain from the Wayback Machine.

What is the difference between current website analysis and historical analysis?
Current analysis examines the live website, while historical analysis looks at previous versions and forgotten functionality.

What is the primary purpose of JavaScript file analysis in web security?
To discover hidden endpoints, API keys, and client-side logic that may reveal additional attack surfaces.

What is the basic command to extract URLs from JavaScript with LinkFinder?
"python3 LinkFinder.py -i [js_file] -o cli" which extracts URLs and endpoints from the specified JavaScript file.

What is the difference between static and dynamic JavaScript analysis?
Static analysis examines code without execution, while dynamic analysis observes JavaScript behavior during runtime.

What is the primary purpose of the "JSFinder" tool in JavaScript security?
To extract endpoints, API keys, and sensitive information from JavaScript files using pattern matching.

What is the basic command to analyze JavaScript with JSFinder?
"python3 JSFinder.py -u [target_url]" which analyzes JavaScript files on the target website for sensitive information.

What is the difference between endpoint extraction and API key discovery?
Endpoint extraction finds URLs and API paths, while API key discovery searches for authentication tokens and secrets.

What is the primary purpose of form analysis in web application security?
To identify input fields, hidden parameters, and potential injection points for vulnerability testing.

What is the basic command to analyze forms with Burp Suite?
Use Burp Suite proxy to intercept requests, then analyze form submissions in the HTTP history for parameters and structure.

What is the difference between visible and hidden form fields?
Visible fields are user-input elements seen on the page, while hidden fields contain data not displayed but submitted with forms.

What is the primary purpose of parameter mining in web security?
To discover all input parameters including hidden ones that might be vulnerable to injection attacks.

What is the basic command to extract parameters with Arjun?
"python3 arjun -u [target_url]" which discovers hidden HTTP parameters by testing common parameter names.

What is the difference between GET parameter mining and POST parameter mining?
GET mining discovers URL parameters, while POST mining finds parameters in request bodies that might not be visible.

What is the primary purpose of error message analysis in web security?
To gather information about database structure, application internals, and potential vulnerabilities from error responses.

What is the basic technique to provoke error messages for analysis?
Submit invalid input, special characters, or malformed requests to trigger application errors that reveal system information.

What is the difference between informative and generic error messages?
Informative errors reveal technical details about the system, while generic errors provide minimal information for security.

What is the primary purpose of HTTP verb tampering in web testing?
To test for access control bypasses by changing HTTP methods to access functionality that should be restricted.

What is the basic command to test HTTP verbs with curl?
"curl -X PUT [target_url]" which tests if the PUT method is enabled on the target URL for potential access control bypass.

What is the difference between HTTP method enumeration and verb tampering?
Method enumeration discovers supported HTTP verbs, while verb tampering tests if changing verbs bypasses security controls.

What is the primary purpose of IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference) testing?
To test if users can access resources they shouldn't by manipulating identifiers in URLs or parameters.

What is the basic technique to test for IDOR vulnerabilities?
Change numeric IDs in URLs or parameters to see if you can access other users' data without proper authorization.

What is the difference between horizontal and vertical privilege escalation in web applications?
Horizontal escalation accesses data at the same privilege level, while vertical escalation gains higher privilege levels.

What is the primary purpose of file upload testing in web security?
To test for malicious file upload, path traversal, and arbitrary file execution vulnerabilities.

What is the basic test for file upload restrictions?
Try uploading different file types (.php, .html, .jpg) to see what restrictions exist and if they can be bypassed.

What is the difference between client-side and server-side file upload validation?
Client-side validation can be bypassed by manipulating requests, while server-side validation provides actual security enforcement.

What is the primary purpose of Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) testing?
To test if malicious JavaScript can be injected and executed in other users' browsers, leading to session hijacking and data theft.

What is the basic XSS payload for testing?
"<script>alert('XSS')</script>" which tests if JavaScript injection is possible in the target input field.

What is the difference between reflected, stored, and DOM-based XSS?
Reflected XSS is immediately reflected in responses, stored XSS is permanently saved, and DOM-based XSS manipulates the browser DOM.

What is the primary purpose of SQL injection testing?
To test if malicious SQL queries can be injected to bypass authentication or extract database information.

What is the basic SQL injection test payload?
"' OR '1'='1" which attempts to bypass login or manipulate SQL queries to return unexpected results.

What is the difference between error-based and blind SQL injection?
Error-based injection uses database error messages to extract information, while blind injection requires inference techniques.

What is the primary purpose of command injection testing?
To test if operating system commands can be executed through web application input fields.

What is the basic command injection test payload?
"; ls -la" which attempts to append a directory listing command to the legitimate application command.

What is the difference between OS command injection and code injection?
OS command injection executes system commands, while code injection executes application-specific programming code.

What is the primary purpose of Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) testing?
To test if the application can be tricked into making requests to internal networks or unauthorized resources.

What is the basic SSRF test payload?
"http://127.0.0.1" which attempts to make the server request localhost, potentially accessing internal services.

What is the difference between blind and direct SSRF vulnerabilities?
Direct SSRF returns the response from internal requests, while blind SSRF requires inference techniques to confirm exploitation.

What is the primary purpose of XML External Entity (XXE) injection testing?
To test if malicious XML entities can be injected to read files or access internal network resources.

What is the basic XXE injection payload?
"<!DOCTYPE foo [<!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd">]>" which attempts to read system files through XML entity injection.

What is the difference between blind XXE and direct XXE vulnerabilities?
Direct XXE returns file contents in responses, while blind XXE requires out-of-band techniques to extract data.

What is the primary purpose of NoSQL injection testing?
To test for injection vulnerabilities in NoSQL databases like MongoDB that use different syntax than SQL.

What is the basic NoSQL injection test payload?
"' || '1'=='1" which attempts to bypass authentication in MongoDB-style NoSQL databases.

What is the difference between SQL and NoSQL injection techniques?
SQL injection uses SQL syntax, while NoSQL injection uses database-specific operators and syntax for NoSQL systems.

What is the primary purpose of template injection testing?
To test if malicious template code can be injected to achieve code execution or information disclosure.

What is the basic template injection test payload?
"{{7*7}}" which tests if template engines process template syntax, returning 49 if vulnerable.

What is the difference between server-side and client-side template injection?
Server-side template injection executes on the server with system access, while client-side executes in the browser with limited capabilities.

What is the primary purpose of deserialization testing?
To test if malicious serialized objects can be injected to achieve code execution or bypass security controls.

What is the basic deserialization test technique?
Modify serialized object data in requests to test if the application processes malicious object structures.

What is the difference between XML and JSON deserialization vulnerabilities?
XML deserialization may be vulnerable to XXE, while JSON deserialization may allow object injection and code execution.

What is the primary purpose of HTTP header security testing?
To test for missing security headers, misconfigurations, and header-based vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to check security headers with curl?
"curl -I [target_url]" which displays all HTTP headers for security analysis including missing security headers.

What is the difference between required and recommended security headers?
Required headers (like HSTS) prevent specific attacks, while recommended headers provide additional security layers.

What is the primary purpose of Content Security Policy (CSP) testing?
To test if CSP headers properly prevent XSS attacks and unauthorized resource loading.

What is the basic CSP bypass test technique?
Attempt to load external scripts or use inline JavaScript to test if CSP enforcement is working properly.

What is the difference between strict and lenient CSP policies?
Strict CSP policies allow only specific trusted sources, while lenient policies permit broader resource loading.

What is the primary purpose of CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) testing?
To test if cross-origin requests are properly restricted to prevent unauthorized data access.

What is the basic CORS testing technique?
Send requests from different origins to test if the application properly validates and restricts cross-origin access.

What is the difference between same-origin policy and CORS?
Same-origin policy blocks cross-origin requests by default, while CORS allows controlled cross-origin access through headers.

What is the primary purpose of web cache poisoning testing?
To test if malicious responses can be cached and served to other users, leading to security bypasses.

What is the basic web cache poisoning test technique?
Manipulate request headers to cache malicious responses that will be served to subsequent users.

What is the difference between client-side and server-side web cache poisoning?
Client-side poisoning affects browser caches, while server-side poisoning affects proxy or application caches.

What is the primary purpose of race condition testing in web applications?
To test if concurrent requests can bypass security controls or cause unexpected behavior.

What is the basic race condition testing technique?
Send multiple simultaneous requests to test if the application properly handles concurrent operations.

What is the difference between TOCTOU (Time-of-Check-Time-of-Use) and general race conditions?
TOCTOU specifically involves time gaps between checking and using resources, while race conditions involve any concurrent operation conflicts.

This beginner web application security deck provides 100 questions covering essential web security concepts and testing methodologies needed for ethical hacking foundation.
